Employee Management System
Python Version

Overview
The Employee Management System is a simple command-line application developed in Python to manage employee records. It allows you to add, display, search, update, and delete employee details. This system helps HR departments and businesses keep track of employee information efficiently.

Features
-Add new employees with details such as name, salary, age, gender, and more.
-Display employee details, either all employees or department-wise.
-Search for employees by Employee ID, Department Name, or Employee Name.
-Update employee information, including name, date of birth, and address.
-Delete employees from the system.
-Calculate and display employees with the highest and lowest salaries.
Usage
Clone the repository to your local machine:


git clone https://github.com/00Tooshar00/Python_Emp_Project.git
Navigate to the project directory:

cd employee-management-system
Run the main.py file to start the application:

python Project.py
Follow the on-screen instructions to interact with the Employee Management System.
Validation.py
contains all validations 

Contributing
We welcome contributions from the open-source community! If you'd like to contribute to this project, please follow these steps:

Fork the repository on GitHub.
Create a new branch from the main branch for your work.
Make your changes, add new features, or fix bugs.
Commit your changes with meaningful commit messages.
Push your changes to your forked repository.
Create a pull request to merge your changes into the main repository.


Contact
If you have any questions or suggestions, feel free to reach out to the project maintainer:

Tushar Sutar
Email: tushar.sutar7740@gmail.com
GitHub userName :00Tooshar00 
Replace the placeholders with your specific information, and make sure to provide clear instructions on how to use and contribute to your project. This README file will help users and potential contributors understand your project and get involved.